everybody welcome to another episode of
am a very special edition as we are
hours away from Thanksgiving which I'm
very excited about which for me is the
kickoff to the holiday season and my
wife and I are like little children
we're gonna be going hard for that cake
this is a magical magical time and I'm
excited to be sharing it with you guys
so thank you so much for joining me and
we're gonna dive right in and today
we're gonna be talking about why passion
isn't enough that's at least for our
kickoff question which comes from Craig
and Zanna on YouTube Tom I really
struggle with this mastery
you
all right so honestly I can't say
whether you're passionate enough or not
my definition of passion is something
where you're actually gaining mastery or
getting better at it and the excitement
enthusiasm of that thing that you love
so much that you actually are willing to
suffer endure the boredom to actually
get good that all of that coalesce is
into really pulling you through so and I
think that that comes from both the just
innate excitement of you encounter
something you enjoyed you pursued it to
make sure that it was a true fascination
and then the gaining of mastery part is
it feels good it feels good to get good
at something now if you have all of that
and it still isn't pulling you through
then that's where we get to the fact
that like love passion just isn't enough
and you also have to develop grit you've
got to develop discipline you've got to
learn how to focus you've got to train
your mind to stay focused I try to be
the human equivalent of God what is it
riddlin what do they give the kids know
what's the college drug adderall
adderall [__] I try to be the
human equivalent of adderall and
practice coming back to what I'm working
on coming back can we get back back back
and uh we just had my man on the show
Brendon Burchard if you guys don't know
him he has this really awesome concept
in his book which oddly enough like I
didn't when I read it I didn't think I
was going to be leaning on it as heavily
as I am which is to really set your
intention when you're transitioning from
one thing to another he says get up walk
around what I've started doing is I go
so I have a gym at my house so I go to
the gym and I bang out a couple of extra
sets on whatever I was working on that
day it really gets my blood pumping
again and I go back and I really have
intention on my next task and I sit down
with energy with focus and I go at it
and if I find myself where it's just
like you feel that lethargy kicking in
you're not able to focus again I'll get
up I'll walk around I'll go outside I'll
do something to re-energize myself and
come back with all that attention like
also if I find that like in your case
like you're just drifting you're
wandering I don't think oh my god like I
don't have enough passion for this what
I think is I need to practice focusing I
need to develop my discipline
I need to get myself back and one thing
that's really really helped me with that
is meditation because meditation what
you're trying to do is not have any
thoughts whatsoever and bring yourself
back to the breath back to the breath
and so in doing that one I'm good at
realizing when I'm no longer doing the
thing that I'd sat down to focus on so
in the case of meditation I'm no longer
focusing on optimizing the pleasure of
each part of the breath cycle my mind
wandering I'm chasing some thought and
so I say you know back to the breath or
just breathe actually is what I
typically say just breathe and that
trains me to very quickly bring my focus
back to that thing so in doing that
every day I really have gotten much much
better at recognizing when my attention
wanders and bring it back so that that's
just the truth passion isn't gonna be
enough one you need to have a gut check
as to whether or not you actually are
passionate only you're gonna be able to
ask that question if you're met with
excitement and all of that then you
probably are passionate and then the
rest is just you need to develop the
habits and routines and practices that
are going to allow you to maintain your
focus and stay on it alright question
number two comes from winter tips 10 I
know you don't have kids but how would
you deal with a hard and long sickness
my daughter has lymphoma
youch I try to stay as positive as
possible I tend to be pessimistic by
nature but I'm working on it every
single day and try my best
currently my only goal is for her to
beat the cancer ASAP but it really is
hard sometimes on the other hand the
situation causes some disagreements with
my partner because we have different
point of view on regarding some
situations for example how to take care
of her in this situation so sometimes I
feel so tired and lost any advice
now we've either had a question almost
exactly like this before this exact
question so I'm really fascinated to see
if I answer them in the same way so
here's the truth meant first and
foremost I just want to say dude I feel
you you are not in an easy situation and
you need to really allow yourself that
that there is there's no easy path
there's no simple answer and the last
thing I want to do is give you something
trite so I just first important most
want to say have a metric shit-ton of
compassion for yourself have a metric
ton of compassion for your spouse
obviously
compassion for your child for sure so
none of you are gonna play this
perfectly there going to be times where
even though your child has lymphoma
they're acting like a legit brat and
you're gonna think oh god like I can't
say anything I can't discipline them
because like what they're going through
is so brutal you can't fall into that
trap they're gonna be times where you're
gonna be a prick and you've got to give
yourself the compassion for that there's
gonna be times where your wife really is
very significant other really is
handling things poorly and you've got to
meet her with compassion for that as
well so just accepting that this this is
gonna be a messy thing and that dealing
with something over the long term like
that your best friend is gonna be
forgiveness is gonna be compassion and
then on top of that just let it be a
reminder that the thing that really
matters is neuro chemistry it's about
finding that joy and I remember my mom
had a very good friend who had a
daughter that had a very long illness
and she was in the hospital a lot and
doing very simple things just to focus
her in the moment on laughing smiling
being happy like those things are just
incredibly incredibly powerful and I
think are ultimately the things you guys
want to come back around to now tomorrow
is Thanksgiving
watch god what were we thinking this
should have been an episode titled
around gratitude okay so I'm gonna punch
myself in the mouth for that later so
I'm writing the newsletter right now and
what I'm breaking down are the things
that I actually do to cultivate
gratitude in my life and I think that
that's something that is really powerful
I just wanna make sure that I'm actually
answering your question though yeah so I
think ultimately the thing that that
answer that question is to have
compassion for yourself because you feel
lost sometimes overwhelmed so yeah
compassion compassion compassion now how
do i cultivate gratitude into my life to
where I'm actually feeling that neural
chemistry so how do you cultivate the
neuro chemistry of gratitude how do you
cultivate the neural chemistry of joy
how do you find happiness in the middle
of this dark time which is absolutely
essential and it can be manufactured so
it goes like this one you're going to
flip a switch in your mind and you're
gonna say I am going to cultivate this
and it doesn't need to come naturally
which is I think what everybody
wants much light with love they want
love to be the sort of effortless thing
that happens and that may be how it
starts but it certainly isn't what's
gonna keep it going so you've got to say
to yourself it's okay that I don't
naturally feel the joy the excitement
I'm overwhelmed by what's going on but
I'm gonna make a decision now that I'm
gonna feel joy I'm gonna feel gratitude
now my daughter has cancer so what do I
have to feel gratitude for one you have
breath in your lungs right now your
daughter's breath in her lungs right now
you have a family unit right now and
even though that stuff may be tumultuous
focus on the parts of it that are
working and it may be something really
really simple and I don't get deadly
simple that she has a bed in the
hospital when she's in the hospital that
she has parents that love her that you
have a child that you love that you have
a significant other that even though
things aren't always going well that you
really can be there for each other if
she's lost her hair that you like the
way that the light shines up her head
I'm not kidding these are all the kinds
of things that I try to find in my life
they're just so so small that I know
they're always gonna be there for me if
it's wintertime wherever you're living
like today here it's like in the mid-80s
so it doesn't really work if you're in
LA but you know the the crispness to the
air all of that stuff those are the
small things and then obviously bigger
things that that are gonna be completely
unique to you but finding those and
taking a minute to really stop focus on
them dwell on them obsess on them blow
them up into something even bigger and
that's what I really tried to do with
the really small things is I try to
really feel it I try to actually like
whoa that's amazing something that I
turned to a lot my wife smile eats her
whole face alive so she has just an
abnormally large smile and I love it
more than you can imagine and that's one
of the things that I go to a lot we
don't have kids but we have these furry
children and the way their fur feels I
really really like that and I find it
deeply comforting so things like that
that I then try to really blow up into
something big so deciding focusing on
the things you're grateful for and then
let's get into the physicality so
smiling changing your posture these are
little things that have this weird
physiological feedback loop that are
going to act
we help you experience that stuff so in
those moments were you really feeling
overwhelmed actually if you're feeling
overwhelmed what you want to do is
diaphragm breathing but that's another
physical thing that you can do so
meditative breathing breathing from the
diaphragm there's something very very
literally just did it right now there's
something very magical is the the actual
word that I want to say there's
something very magical about the fact
that the way that our mind and body are
connected that's simply breathing from
your diaphragm takes you out of the
sympathetic nervous system which is
getting revved up which is what makes
you feel overwhelmed and switches you
into the parasympathetic nervous system
which is known as rest and digest it's
where you start to feel calm your
breathing gets deeper and slower your
heart rate begins to slow down so all of
the neuro chemistry that you were
feeling that was making you feel
stressed or anxious or overwhelmed now
begins to be replaced by things that
make you feel more calm and relaxed and
also in a calm relaxed state you tend to
feel more creative so all of those
things are great for priming you to then
really feel that gratitude so when
you're in a dark place you want to laugh
out loud you want to change your posture
you want to sit up tall you want to
spread your shoulders out you want to do
what's called power posing where you
take up more space laughing out loud
like all of these things are really
gonna change your neuro chemistry okay
for more on that by the way if you guys
haven't already be sure to subscribe to
the newsletter gonna be a good one today
and it will walk you through those steps
make it really concrete I might have one
or two extras for you as well okay next
question this is from the art of
unpredictability Tom it's will Colette
what's up will from Hill Air Force Base
Utah question I've launched this brand
and I'm struggling to build an audience
first basic moves
you'd make to get even a following ok so
this really nowadays is like the obvious
answer of social media so you don't say
what the brand is but hopefully the
brand has a very strong identity that
has an element of lifestyle to it so
that you can begin to paint that
lifestyle and depending on what it is so
like with Quest we were making recipes
with impact Theory we're doing this so
impact theory is all about mindset
that's the word that we want to own
that's the universe that we want to play
in every film comic TV show and
everything that we do in the future is
all gonna be around mindset making sure
that we're talking empowerment so that's
what we build into our social feeds and
so it's our social feeds that have
allowed us to build that audience so by
creating something that adds value in
and of itself so they don't have to know
you they don't have to know your brand
they just want something that's gonna
add value to their moment so what we do
quote cards the clips is really becoming
big for us so even like an episode like
this will break up into clips so just
think about what's a way that you can
add value to people's lives at the end
of the day the greatest marketing
vehicle that anybody can have is to add
value to other people's lives and if
you're thinking like that and you're not
thinking about being a clever marketer
you're just thinking how do I go about
adding value to people's lives then
you're really gonna do something special
so find a way to add value to people's
lives that's tied to your brand and
you'll crush it all right question
number 4 Daniel bro what is up damn bro
Fitness when you have passion and know
your why but battle with expressing your
excitement to others I've been working
on speaking quicker firming my brow
firming my stomach but still falling
short what ways would you continue to
learn to express passion better so first
of all it sounds like you're already
doing my sort of basic tips and tricks
and so a lot of this is just going to be
practice practice practice the one that
I'll add that you didn't talk about
there is voice modulation so in fact a
great example of this if you guys watch
my impact quotes which comes out every
Monday on YouTube listen to my impact
quotes impact quotes is the one thing I
do where I really think about performing
and so for anybody that's interested in
public speaking
you'll notice that normally I start off
slow so I begin with the quote
oftentimes as Winston Churchill once
said write and then I go into the quote
I'm very deliberate about the quote and
then I do this thing where I'm talking
like this and then I start really going
and what I want you guys to understand
is that this kind of thing is essential
pause and you have to understand why
it's essential
so taking people on that journey is a
big thing and then here's the weird one
you
you've really got to feel it so you've
got to find a way to internalize that
and it's a weird feedback loop some of
it is through all the things that I was
just talking about you're beginning to
do the things from just a vocal
modulation perspective from a body
perspective the way you hold yourself
the way you move the way you gesture how
big you are how loud you're getting the
cadence all of that stuff is now feeding
back into you how you should feel and
then as that feeling really begins to
take hold then it takes over and it
begins to steer your emotions and my
best ones are when my I really in that
zone I'm really feeling it and like
sometimes when I'm doing them like I'm
actually getting emotional cuz I'm just
I'm feeling the thing I'm trying to
express so practice practice practice
doing that allowing yourself to feel it
allowing yourself to perform to really
bring that energy out to bring that
passion out that's really really
important but you've got to feel it ok
question from Ben fama this is on
Facebook how do you maintain
authenticity when you challenge everyone
else who thinks different in your
industry my goal is to be as authentic
as [__] while challenging sacred cows
this creates uncomfortable situations
what's the balance of rage and
compassion well if you're talking about
the rest of your industry and you don't
necessarily need compassion for your
industry fuck'em you're gonna like win
you're gonna beat them all so I'm not
thinking about compassion when I'm
thinking about my competitors I want to
win and then in terms of rage rage is
really only useful in 20% amounts and
the vast majority of your time should
really be focused on just adding value
right so what are you doing that's
awesome just think about that and if it
really is authentic then doesn't matter
what your competitors are doing doesn't
matter what the sacred cows are what the
only thing that matters is does your
audience understand the value
proposition or not and so understanding
their frame of reference understanding
why the sacred cow is the sacred cow can
be very very important so make sure that
you're you're not doing things
differently because you don't understand
anything else that can actually be a
position of weakness make sure you
understand the dominant paradigm and
that you understand how what you're
doing is better and is actually going to
lead people to their goals
more quickly more efficiently more
enthusiastically than the dominant
paradigm then it it really becomes
interesting because you're knowingly
subverting the paradigm versus just sort
of stumbling into something now
stumbling into it can work but
oftentimes when it's done from an
ignorant point of view it doesn't last
and so you don't know how to evolve your
own thinking which is really if you guys
have read the innovators dilemma is is a
big part of that like how do you disrupt
but then continue to disrupt how do you
not become then behold into your own
disruption and that your past begins to
calcify into dogma and you're not able
to stay free and really see that next
wave to evolve beyond and I find that
when people actually understand how they
were subverting the paradigm then they
can actually evolve themselves so there
you have it all right
Jumaane what is up Jumaane this one's
from Facebook how do you know how much
to charge people for your services do
you start at a low price in the
beginning and how do you break out of
the price point once you acquire more
skills so I don't necessarily start low
I think about what I owe my target
audiences first of all how much money do
they have and then how much value is the
thing that I'm selling bringing an eye
chart try to charge the amount of value
that I deliver because I know that
ultimately what people are thinking
about is okay there's this thing that
they're doing and I've got my money and
I needs to be offered at a price point
where they would rather have that thing
than the money so either because you
know something that they don't know or
because you've created something that
they don't want to take the time and
energy to create so you've really got to
do your market research to find out what
other people in your industry are
charging because if they can get
something similar from somebody else
other than you then price comparison
becomes a real thing so doing market
research really analyzing quality of
offering at what price point brand
recognition at what price point you
don't have a brand so you you know
you've got to find all of that stuff so
I'm really doing some just data-driven
market research there's no substitute
for that and then when in doubt Intuit
it do your best guess go out if people
aren't buying at the price you're
offering lower the price if you're
finding that you're getting more jobs
and you can handle raise the price right
and that's a great position to be in
that you know at X price I get you know
so many gigs like for instance if I lo
my speaking rate I would get a lot more
speaking jobs but I don't want more
speaking jobs so and I started raising
my price when I was getting too many
speaking jobs so that becomes like the
the balancing act that you play is it's
you know a trade of time for money how
long does it take you to do that thing
how much revenue you're able to bring in
if it's not a good ratio then you either
need to do something else or you need to
raise your rates if the market allows
alright next question is from Steve
Hurley this comes from YouTube what best
practices have you used or learned that
allow you to tune into what you truly
want and not be influenced by others to
resist the conformity society tends to
put on new entrepreneurs when I say the
society puts conformity on new
entrepreneurs I wouldn't say that so god
this is complicated and this is
something that we've been talking about
here recently is look at the end of the
day as an entrepreneur you are an
absolute slave to your customers brace
yourself for that one you're an absolute
slave to your customers and this is
something that I I think is getting lost
in this everybody wants to be a CEO
thing and everybody wants to be an
entrepreneur and they forget man you
don't think you work for somebody hey
you work for your entire team be you
absolutely work for the customer and so
once you really get a grasp of that and
as the entrepreneur what you're saying
is guys you can trust me to deliver and
that your your trust is best placed in
me that I'm the one that's gonna get you
the result but at the end of the day
you're trying to get your employees a
result you're trying to get your
customers a result and you need to hold
yourself to that standard I'm not Jesus
I've never thought about what society
wanted me to be I don't I don't
literally I feel absolutely no sense of
pressure from society whatsoever but I
feel an absolute crushing pressure to
deliver something of value to my team
into my customers that they're actually
willing to pay for
so that is massive and speaking of
things that you're actually willing to
pay for
check out the be legendary shirt by the
way hit up right now shop impact Theory
calm these make
amazing Christmas gifts we've got all
kinds of stuff but like I think about
all the time a what do we charge B
what's the real value C what are other
things that we could offer I'm never
gonna make the the the endgame isn't
because we do consider ourselves a
merchandising company but the end game
is not just t-shirts so understanding
like how to really identify who your
audience is this is critical identify
who your audience is which is gonna help
you serve them better which by the way
chase is just an incredible job of
putting personas together of you at home
it's pretty amazing I think he's got you
guys pegged and that allows us to really
work backwards and figure out what are
the things we can deliver to you the add
value but that's all I'm thinking about
not worried about people's expectations
I just want to know how I can deliver a
crushing amount of value to you guys all
right next up is from Brian Rock Camp no
matter how hard I try I still have an
anger that burns inside of me okay can
be useful depending on where this goes I
have worked on finding the origin to no
avail driving going to grocery store and
small things seem to trigger me I know
you have answered this before but do you
have any suggestions I think I need to
change my perspective on expectations
any thoughts how can passion and purpose
help
okay so passion and purpose aren't gonna
come to your aid here there they're just
two totally separate things so let me
really think about what do I do in this
situation okay in your brain because the
problem isn't necessarily that
especially if you've really looked for
it and you can't find the origin of the
anger one of two things is true either
in a 20 minute conversation with a very
qualified therapist they would figure
out immediately what all of this is and
they would just ask all the right
questions that you're not able to ask
yourself that's entirely possible but I
can be useful to you with that right now
so we're gonna set that aside the other
option is that this is simply a question
of the region's the network's in your
brain that you have trained to be very
efficient so for whatever reason either
because there's an unidentified origin
in your mind that's kicking this up or
just because at one point there was
something that really made you angry or
quite frankly see you just happen to be
an angry dude which we all have
predilections none of that matters why
you're there
what matters is you are there and what
there is is you've made your anger
Network in your brain really efficient
and so it triggers very easily and now
your job is to build other networks the
network of gratitude the network of calm
creative the network of happiness and
joy like you need now to build those up
and so the easiest starting point is
going to be meditation which is gonna
train you to at least rapidly
de-escalate the anger so it sounds like
you have a high degree of self awareness
around the fact that anger is happening
so maybe driving is the perfect place so
you're going to do a couple things one
you're gonna leverage bright lines and
you're gonna say on my drive home I do
not express anger period okay
now the reason we're gonna start with
expressing anger or not expressing anger
is because the expression of anger is
further going to light up that network
in your brain that's already working a
little too efficiently so you're gonna
feel the anger for sure we'll worry
about addressing that later you're gonna
feel the anger be of a bright line I do
not express anger okay now that we do
that we're gonna use the anger as a
trigger the feeling of anger as a
trigger to go through either a joyful
ritual or a gratitude ritual and if it's
that you're gonna use joy which is what
I did when I was dealing with once I got
angry I would just stay angry for so
long so I started laughing out loud and
as ridiculous as that sounds it works it
works every time 100% success rate it's
never once not worked so the only time
that I think that laughing out loud and
may take you thirty seconds may take you
60 seconds you may have to put on the
comedy who knows like listen to a funny
podcast while you drive in whatever it
takes but you're gonna use that anger as
a trigger for a joyful habit loop that
you're gonna put yourself in where
you're doing something in the
physicality or with music or with
podcasts something that really changes
your mood so that you begin to really
strengthen that Network and ultimately
that's we need to do you need to that's
the double whammy of not letting the
anger Network continue to be
strengthened by feeding into it through
reaction and then building a new network
of joy of gratitude whatever okay try
that report back
all right next question is from Johanna
Lucena should I follow my passion even
if initially months maybe years don't
bring me any profit money and if I do
and if I do that I must have a day job
right how do I handle both it seems like
achieving mastery while working on
something you don't like becomes harder
okay so this is a rubber meets the road
question so you got to eat fully get
that and yes you're gonna need a job
unless you've got you know you can live
with parents or whatever you'd be
shocked if you're willing how much you
can cut your expenses to the quick so if
you're making money doing something that
you don't enjoy I highly recommend that
you cut your expenses to the quick live
with five other people in a studio
apartment move back in with your parents
whatever you need to do so that you
don't have to work a soul-crushing job
that takes a lot of time and energy
while you develop revenue from something
that you do like now remember following
your passion doesn't necessarily mean
being an entrepreneur it means taking
the time to find a company that makes a
product that you really believe in that
the day to day thing that you're gonna
be doing actually makes you feel alive
that you're either learning something
you deeply deeply care about and just
the gaining of the skill set is in and
of itself so thrilling that you want to
keep doing it or you're getting to
express a skillset that you have and
hopefully also gives you the opportunity
to push forward and get even better at
that thing and using a skill set what
the greeks called technique using a
skill set that you've worked really hard
to get in service of other people is
just absolute foundational part of
fulfillment and I think fulfillment is
really the name of the game so you don't
need to make money there are plenty of
people that you know they make precious
little money but they're really happy so
just keeping in mind that the endgame
here is neuro chemistry it isn't some
number on a piece of paper but money
does make lack of money I should say it
makes things very very stressful so if
that lifestyle doesn't suit you
I would lower your expenses to the quick
get a job now that pays the bills so
you're not panicking but make sure it's
a job that gives you free time so that
you're able to go and find your
idealized job all right that's what I
would do all right next question is from
Mia lavoy Facebook hey Tom I've been
shot
my whole life and over the years have
found so much more confidence by finding
more things I believe in and stand by
etc but I noticed that I still do revert
to shyness around certain peers and more
my authentic confident self around
others do you have any insight as to why
this is and any tips on how to
consistently stay in my most authentic
expression or maybe there's a positivity
to holding back from certain people like
a subconscious intuitive discretion
things alright so first of all I don't
think being shy is a problem so if
there's times that you want to be shy be
shy I am I'm getting more and more
introverted as the days go by but let me
indulge for saying don't scroll off this
because I can feel I want to share
something with you guys that may or may
not answer this question but it might so
here we go
I find myself getting more and more
introverted but by nature I think I walk
a pretty fine line between extraversion
and introversion so I'm sort of a
middle-of-the-road dyed-in-the-wool ambi
Evert but recently I found myself
becoming more and more introverted and
so finally I admitted to the team I said
hey look it's going on it is real I have
begun to sort of separate myself from
you guys a little bit I'm head phoning
up a lot but the reason is this I am so
excited by things that we've got going
on in the background with the studio
that I think it's really really gonna
pay off that I think that we're
beginning to meet the people we need to
meet
I believe I'm beginning to put together
the worldview that I'm gonna need for
all of us to be successful as a real
studio the the we're not playing at the
studio like that is I'm so [__]
committed to building that thing so like
and and I feel the momentum speeding up
and because I feel that momentum
speeding up I'm becoming more and more
introverted because I need the time to
really think it through I need the time
to connect those pieces I need the time
to really analyze whether we're making
steps or not whether we're actually
making progress that's so so so
important to me to really be doing that
so I say all of that because I think
that introversion not necessarily
shyness but I think that the
introversion serves me very well
so if being shy is defined as not an
anxiety about it but merely a desire to
sort of sit back be a little more
introspective be a little more in the
corner to watch people
and it feels good and you like it great
if that doesn't feel like an authentic
expression of yourself which you've said
a couple times then realizing that just
like I was talking about a minute ago
with the anger control problem your
shyness is a network in your brain that
you have over the years fed and so it's
very easy to slip back into that there's
this really really great Batman cartoon
from the 90s where Bruce Wayne gets
kidnapped by this gang and they don't
know who he is and so he gets forced
into slave labor and he's just as scared
as everybody else because he's got
amnesia and then all of a sudden in this
flash moment he realizes that he's
Batman and once he remembers that he's
Batman it's like all of a sudden he can
fight he can escape and it's always been
this really powerful example of the
power of networks in the brain that once
he had the network of confidence lit up
by remembering that he was Batman
suddenly he could do things that he
couldn't do a moment before somebody
because he didn't have that network in
his brain active so he wasn't feeling
the confidence and when you feel
confident you just feel capable of more
you certainly take bigger risks there's
a quote from a racecar driver I don't
remember who said it but he was like
once you're no longer willing to take a
risk to you know take that corner make
that dangerous move to get into first
place once you've lost that you've lost
your edge and you should quit racing and
I thought wow that's so true that is
confidence like once you've lost the
confidence to allow you to do something
other people won't do to take that
chance to extend yourself to take a risk
then it's it you should probably stop so
you've got to decide whether the shyness
is serving you whether it's authentic or
not and you've got to if it's not
authentic and it's just this old network
that just has too much efficiency built
into weeks you spent so much time
feeding into that behaving that way
you've got to remind yourself that
that's what it is when you feel yourself
being shy you've slipped into a network
and then do things whatever that is
music I use music a lot to get myself to
a confident state meditating to get into
a calm state like whatever you need to
do to trigger that network that you want
to be in just understand that that's how
the brain works that you've got like
you've hardwired these clusters and they
make you feel a certain way and
you're feeling that it feels like your
identity it feels like the sum total of
what you're capable of but you can
actually shift into a different network
and become truly capable of more okay
next question is from Jordan Molson this
one's from YouTube do you have any
advice on how to help and inspire others
to action despite the pain of change
keeping them from the life they want to
live okay this this one is so beyond
heartbreaking for me that I'm gonna need
a drink of water
alright why is this heartbreaking
because I've had to accept that it's
just sometimes not worth the energy to
try to change people and yes that means
that they're going to suffer and yes it
means that people you love for whatever
reason because they're not ready for a
growth mindset or whatever their life
will actually be worse than it needed to
be and it will be full of insecurities
it will be full of pain and needless
suffering and and that's just the
reality man so here's what I have
learned to do and that is to meet them
with compassion to love them where they
are to not add to their loss their
stress their pain and really the only
thing that I do by way of trying to
change them is I live my life the way
the ia see fit period I don't [__]
dull my shine for anybody so I am Who I
am I'm about what I'm about but when I'm
around them I want them to see my
fascination in them I want them to see
that they have something to teach me and
that I want to learn from it and that
does two things one it really makes
talking to them way more fun because I'm
learning something that they care about
and I'm learning which is my juice and
just is the thing that I absolutely love
so when I feel like how [__] I'm stuck
in a conversation with somebody and
maybe they have a fixed mindset or
whatever which I find beyond tedious I
try to immediately get them away from
that and talking about something that
makes them feel good talking about
something that lights them up you know
if you want to be interesting be
interested like have that bucket of
questions that you ask people like I
whenever I'm meeting somebody for the
first time
not every time but if the situation is
appropriate and I'm meeting somebody for
the first time I ask like what's the
thing you're most passionate about in
life and I just find that that's it's it
skips all the [__] of like small
talk it takes them into an area where
they actually enjoy talking about it and
then you'll be surprised how interesting
you'll find something even that
something you don't care about when
you're talking to somebody who's really
passionate about it and a lot of times
people are gonna say they're kids
because they haven't really thought
about you know sort of that other thing
that they're passionate about and so one
you can explore that a lot might be
something really interesting going on
there and if not then you may just want
to say oh that's so cool now what about
beyond your kids beyond your family
what's something they're passionate
about and you'll find that it takes you
into interesting places alright
unfortunately have to wrap this one up
early today so we've got time for one
more question
alright these are live questions right
okay so I feel like I should be talking
about gratitude because it's
Thanksgiving but Harris alum hey Tom I
come from a really wealthy family that's
good and bad I've been spoiled
throughout my childhood and university
years I never had to work hard for
anything I'm 26 and I've never gotten a
paycheck ever since I've never needed to
work I don't have a chip in my shoulder
in my back against the wall if
everything else fails I can join my
family's business which I don't want to
do I can't see myself being fulfilled
doing that how do I cultivate a raging
source of motivation in me to drive me
to pursue my own ambitions at cetera all
right well the [__] lean in all right
here's how this is gonna go dude I love
it so first of all you got an amazing
amount of self-awareness check I love
that it's fantastic now it's about
excitement it's about a compelling
future it's about the whole point of
being alive is to get excited about some
[__] so awesome one thing has been
removed you don't have to chase money
that is [__] fantastic but think
about me I'm [__] rich I'm like
spastically wealthy beyond like anything
I ever would have imagined as a kid but
I'm so [__] excited about the thought
of being able to pull people out of the
matrix at a global scale like I want to
be remembered I want to do some [__] so
when I think about now I've got to solve
this puzzle I've got to think about like
how do I play this right so thankfully I
don't have to think about money I can
take that off the table but dude I've
got to solve this puzzle man I've really
got to figure this out and so you've got
that same thing right you can eventually
go work for the fam
if you want to you don't have to think
about money that's awesome but like
what's that thing that gets you jazz
like what's your version of pulling
people out of the matrix you need to go
experience a ton of [__] like find that
stuff that really it starts is like whoa
that was fun right it jazzed you up it's
something that you're interested in it's
the thing that you think about when you
wake up it's the thing you're thinking
about when you go to bed like what is
that thing it might not be an obsession
in the beginning but there's something
that tickles your fancy engage with it
see if it turns into a real fascination
where it captures your [__]
imagination where you talk about it all
the time people want you to shut up
because like you just want to talk about
it because it's it's got you and then
once something has you like that then
it's about really gaining mastery it's
about getting good at that thing
so dude ask yourself a simple question
what what do you want to what's the
impact you want to have on the world
nice and simple it's a question I ask
every guest once you know the answer to
that question then your life becomes
about how much of that can you do before
you tap out
so homie like you're way ahead of the
game that is an amazing thing and if you
need a little bit of Rage know this most
people listening to that question think
what a dick this guy's got all that and
he's [__] like whinging about not
knowing what he wants to do I wish I was
in that problem right now with that chip
on your [__] shoulder show people
that that doesn't have to be a handicap
that you can do something amazing with
that that you're gonna do the work to
but they want you to fail by the way
uh-huh
let that sink in so they want you to
fail so letting that be something where
you're not gonna be defined by the fact
that you grew up with money you're not
gonna let that make you soft you're not
gonna let that stop you from developing
grit because you're gonna take the time
to figure out what that thing is that
you want to do what the impact is you
want to have in the world and you're
gonna have disproportionate effect on
the world because let me tell you not
every rich [__] out there ends up
doing anything with their life so my
friend this is a game about finding that
thing that you love that gets you
excited and be willing to play at a
level where you're be remembered and if
you're not remembered with all the
advantages that you have shame on you
yeah buddy now gratitude man gratitude
everybody this is the time it is a
choice it is a decision we're about to
enter into one of the most beautiful
times I don't care what religion you are
I am not religious in the [__]
slightest I'm about as unreligious as a
human being can get and dude I'm telling
you this is just a time certainly here
in the West the timing of everything
where people just the side they're gonna
be a little bit nicer they're gonna have
a little bit more fun they're gonna be a
little bit more jazzed up so flip that
switch in your head have that same
feeling go into this time period for all
it's worth man think about the things
that you love we talked about them
earlier with the guy who unfortunately
his daughter has cancer but even in a
moment like that there's a thousand
things that you could find to be
grateful for focus on that you get what
you focus on put your energy into really
making this a special time of year enjoy
the [__] out of it be way way way
childlike and you will get a lot out of
that and by the way guys I did a special
impact quotes that dropped this Monday
go check it out it's all about gratitude
I was really feeling this one I want you
guys to see it I want you to share it
get the word out there that would be
amazing and let's let's all just share
some love in the comments dude this is
such a cool time guys go have fun
[__] love life this is amazing
alright hit me up on social let me know
what you guys are grateful for I love
hearing that [__] let me know what you
think about the impact quotes and if you
haven't already be sure to subscribe and
until next time my friends be legendary
take care happy holidays
[Applause]
[Music]